h1. 0.3.7 (2010-01-02)

* Feature: override DryScaffold templates seamlessly: Auto-detect and use app-specific custom templates with mapping: RAILS_ROOT/lib/scaffold_templates/**/* <=> GEM_ROOT/generators/{dry_scaffold,dry_model}/templates/**/*.

h1. 0.3.6 (2009-12-31)

* Gemcutter as gem source.
* Bugfix: Use InheritedResources (if loaded) URL helpers.
* Bugfix: Use specified test framework, test-unit was used all the time.

h1. 0.3.4 (2009-09-16)

* Fixed bug: Make it possible to require rake tasks (In Rakefile: require 'dry_scaffold/tasks')

h1. 0.3.2/0.3.3 (2009-09-14)

* Fixed bug: Rspec tests issues

h1. 0.3.1 (2009-09-09)

* Feature: Added Rspec tests generation

h1. 0.3.0 (2009-07-23)

* Major refactoring of the code.
* Test/Fixture-stuff re-written from the ground, now tested thoroughly and considered stable - was not before. Plenty sloppy bugs squashed.
* Added Shoulda tests generation.

h1. 0.2.5 (2009-06-12)

* Fixed typo: Gem configuration instructions in README.
* Fixed bug: Re-generated gemspec - missing files. (cjheath)

h1. 0.2.4 (2009-05-19)

* Fixed bug: Causing generator to fail if test/unit/helpers path don't exist. 

h1. 0.2.3 (2009-05-12)

* Fixed bug: Missing executables in gemspec.

h1. 0.2.2 (2009-05-06)

* Feature: Specifying actions new+ instead of new, then actions new/create. Same applies to edit+, i.e. edit/update.
* Feature: For respond_to-formats ATOM/RSS; builders will be generated unless --skip-builders flag is specified
* Feature: If route is already declared in 'config/routes.rb', then don't generate the route again.
* Refactor: New template directory structure and naming conventions - more generic. Preparing for optional test frameworks.
* Refactor: Cleaned up views with generator helpers.
* Fixed bug: Options for factory_girl vs. machinist got in-versed, i.e. typo.
* Fixed bug: Options got ignored because of a typo. Grrr....

h1. 0.2.1 (2009-05-03)

* New feature: Possible to set generator default args in a config file (config/scaffold.yml), or rely on defaults.
* Fixed issue: Rails default_options don't seem to work at all; replacing it with own solution.
* Fixed bug: Typo in formats arg parser.
* Refactor: Gem requires less hardcoded.

h1. 0.2.0 (2009-05-01)

* New dry model generator: Extends Rails default model generator with features such as generation of factory_girl/machinis/object_daddy-factories if available and requested (or fixtures), and specifying database column indexes upon generation in a very convenient way.