h1. TODO

h2. Next

* Bug/Issue: InheritedResources functional testing issue.
* Feature: RSpec-templates?
* Optimization: Write even better functional tests for REST-actions. Goal: Killer-tests, i.e. "best practice"-tests. Suggestion: Routing, formats, ...
* Feature: Auto-detection of testing frameworks in working project.

h2. Maybe

* Feature: Check for overridden templates in: RAILS_ROOT/lib/dry_scaffold/templates/
* Feature: Handle belongs_to, i.e. specify MODEL --belongs-to PARENT_MODEL, which generates proper routes, proper before-filters if inherited_resources-controller, adding belongs_to-association in model, and correct form_for arguments.
* Feature: Builder for podcast-feed, similar to RSS/Atom-builders. http://wiki.github.com/radiant/radiant/host-a-podcast
* Tests: Generator tests. =P (Not very straightforward...)

h2. Issues

* Contact José regarding the InheritedResources-issue:

ActionController::RoutingError: parrot_url failed to generate from {:controller=>"parrots", :id=>#<Parrot id: nil, name: "Hello", created_at: "2009-07-21 18:53:25", updated_at: "2009-07-21 18:53:25">, :action=>"show"}, expected: {:controller=>"parrots", :action=>"show"}, diff: {:id=>#<Parrot id: nil, name: "Hello", created_at: "2009-07-21 18:53:25", updated_at: "2009-07-21 18:53:25">}
  (eval):16:in `parrot_url'
/opt/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/josevalim-inherited_resources-0.7.3/lib/inherited_resources/url_helpers.rb:194:in `resource_url'
/opt/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/josevalim-inherited_resources-0.7.3/lib/inherited_resources/base_helpers.rb:311:in `send'
/opt/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/josevalim-inherited_resources-0.7.3/lib/inherited_resources/base_helpers.rb:311:in `parse_redirect_url'
/opt/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/josevalim-inherited_resources-0.7.3/lib/inherited_resources/base.rb:79:in `create'
/opt/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/josevalim-inherited_resources-0.7.3/lib/inherited_resources/respond_to.rb:301:in `call'
/opt/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/josevalim-inherited_resources-0.7.3/lib/inherited_resources/respond_to.rb:301:in `respond_any'
/opt/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/josevalim-inherited_resources-0.7.3/lib/inherited_resources/respond_to.rb:233:in `respond_to'
/opt/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/josevalim-inherited_resources-0.7.3/lib/inherited_resources/base_helpers.rb:283:in `respond_to_with_dual_blocks'
/opt/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/josevalim-inherited_resources-0.7.3/lib/inherited_resources/base.rb:78:in `create'
    haml (2.0.9) rails/./lib/sass/plugin/rails.rb:19:in `process'
    /test/functional/donkeys_controller_test.rb:8:in `test_create'
    
  test 'create' do
    Donkey.any_instance.expects(:save).returns(true)
    @donkey = donkeys(:basic)
    post :create, :donkey => @donkey.attributes   # <<<<<<<<<<<<< donkeys_controller_test.rb:8
    assert_response :redirect
  end
